# Thesis---DI2-Data---SJ-Study

This is the first omnibus study in my thesis where I plan to investigate the cross-cultural effects of political ideology,  life-satisfaction, inequality, civil liberties, and objective and subjective socioeconomic status on system justification. This will contain all relevent code associated with this first cross-cultural study.

The present study will attempt to add to the System Justification literature by exploring a range of theoretical postulates throughout the theory that have garnered a significant amount of attention from both supporters of system justification and competing psychological theories such as Social Dominance Theory (Sidanius & Pratto, 2001) and Social Identity Theory (Tajfel & Turner, 1979). 

The theory of System Justification was first proposed 25 years ago by Jost and Banaji (1994) to address why disadvantaged individuals and groups participate in both the negative stereotyping of themselves and the phenomenon of outgroup favoritism. The depth of the theory has since been expanded to account for a wider range of outcomes, including: appraisals of fairness, justice, legitimacy, deservingness, and entitlement; spontaneous and deliberate social judgements about individuals, groups, and events; and full-fledged political and religious ideologies (Valdes, 2022). System Justification Theory refers to an individual's tendency to maintain and support the existing social, political, and economic system and regard it as fair, legitimate, and justified (Jost & Banaji, 1994). Embedded within System Justification Theory are a wide variety of hypotheses that attempt to specify the individual, societal, and cultural circumstances/values when the system justifying motive is most likely to occur. For the purpose of the present study, we will be investigating a group of hypotheses proposed by System Justification Theory over the course of its development (Jost & Banaji, 1994; Jost et al., 2003; Jost 2019, 2020). Each one of these hypotheses proposed by Jost and his colleagues have seldom gone uncontested by other researchers interested in understanding how dominance based hierarchies and acceptance of inequality are perpetuated within societies (Brandt, 2013, 2020; Sidanius & Pratto, 1999; Tajfel & Turner, 1979).
